



                                THE OHIO
                               Naturalist


                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

                            EDITORIAL STAFF

            EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, A. M., M. S.


                           ASSOCIATE EDITORS:

                    _Zoology_—F. L. LANDACRE, B. Sc.
                      _Botany_—F. J. TYLER, B. Sc.
                   _Geology_—J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                   _Archaeology_—W. C. MILLS, B. Sc.
                      _Ornithology_—R. F. GRIGGS.


                            ADVISORY BOARD:

                   PROFESSOR W. A. KELLERMAN. Ph. D.
                         Department of Botany.

                    PROFESSOR HERBERT OSBORN, M. Sc.
                         Department of Zoology.

                   PROFESSOR J. A. BOWNOCKER, D. Sc.
                         Department of Geology.

 Volume I.                     March, 1901                      Number 5


                             COLUMBUS, OHIO

                        _PRESS OF HANN & ADAIR_


[Sidenote: _THE OHIO
           NATURALIST_]

A journal devoted more especially to the natural history of Ohio. The
official organ of THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY.
Published monthly during the academic year, from November to June (8
numbers). Price 50 cents per year, payable in advance. To foreign
countries, 75 cents. Single copies 10 cents.

                                 JOHN H. SCHAFFNER, _Editor_.
                                 F. J. TYLER, _Subscriptions_.
                                 R. F. GRIGGS, _Advertising Agent_.
                 _Address_
                         THE OHIO NATURALIST, Ohio State University,
                                                         COLUMBUS, OHIO.




                                CONTENTS


 Perennial Tumbleweeds                                                67
              _John H. Schaffner_

 The Sprouting of Cocklebur Seeds                                     69
              _E. E. Masterman_

 Plant Remains from the Baum Village Site                             70
              _W. C. Mills_

 Sprouting Flower Buds of Opuntia                                     71
              _V. Sterki_

 Note on the Involucral Leaves of Syndesmon                           72
              _F. H. Burglehaus_

 Competition in Botany for Ohio Schools                               72
              _W. A. Kellerman_

 Minor Plant Notes No. 2                                              76
              _W. A. Kellerman_

 Meeting of the Biological Club                                       78
              _James S. Hine, Sec._


 Entered at the Post Office at Columbus, Ohio, as second class matter.




                          The Ohio Naturalist

                              PUBLISHED BY

            THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB OF THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY


 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 Vol. 1.                       MARCH, 1901                         No. 5
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────




                         PERENNIAL TUMBLEWEEDS.

                           JOHN H. SCHAFFNER.


Tumbleweeds may be classified under three general heads:

                         Annual tumbleweeds,
                         Tumble-grasses,
                         Perennial tumbleweeds.

The annual tumbleweeds are mostly plants with a small root system which
shrivels up or rots away soon after the seed has matured. The plants are
then easily torn from the ground or broken off and go tumbling away
before the wind. In some cases the roots become quite fleshy and
brittle. In the tumble-grasses the panicle is generally the only part
which is transported, the stems of the panicle being usually very
brittle and breaking readily even in those forms which are easily torn
up from the roots.

[Illustration: Fig. 1. Psoralea floribunda. Plant growing on prairie,
Clay Co., Kan.]

[Illustration: Fig. 2. Plant of P floribunda, showing a part of the deep
taproot.]

The perennial tumbleweeds are especially interesting because of the way
in which they are separated from the underground parts. Among the
perennial forms Psoralea floribunda is one of the most typical. It is a
long-lived, perennial crown-former with a very deep root which may be
several inches in diameter. From the short terminal stem of this root a
number of aerial branches are developed annually. These branches take on
a more or less globose or balloon-shaped form. At the base of each
aerial stem a number of special joints are formed in which transverse
cleavage regions are gradually developed, and when the seed is ripe the
whole crown breaks off at these joints with remarkable ease. This is a
peculiar case of the development of a self-pruning process in the stem
for a very special purpose.

Psoralea argophylla also develops perfect joints but fewer shoots
usually make up the crown and it is therefore less conspicuous than P.
floribunda. Psoralea esculenta is also a tumbleweed but the writer has
not made an examination of the way in which it separates from the thick,
tuberous, perennial root.

[Illustration: Fig. 3. (a) Base of a stem of P. floribunda with two
cleavage joints. (b) Base of stem showing cleavage surface.]

Psoralea floribunda is very abundant in north-central Kansas where the
writer has seen great masses heaped up against hedgerows and wire
fences. These plants show a most remarkable responsive adaption to an
environment of very definite conditions. They have developed nearly
every character possible in harmony with the dry and windy plains of the
west and may be regarded as ideal prairie plants.




                   THE SPROUTING OF COCKLEBUR SEEDS.

                            E. E. MASTERMAN.


In July, 1896, Dr. E. W. Claypole, then of Buchtel College, Akron, Ohio,
asked me how general was the belief that one seed of the cocklebur grew
one year and the other the next year or later. Inquiry of about twenty
of the older residents resulted in procuring no information touching the
same. In 1897, I was told by a German farmer that one seed only grew one
year and the other later, never both at the same time. A short time
after I noticed the statement of A. D. Selby in Bulletin 83, (page 353)
Ohio Experiment Station, as follows: “Prof. Arthur has recently shown
that only one of these seeds can be caused to germinate the first year,
the other always remaining until the second year.” This was a
confirmation of the German’s claim, yet I determined to investigate for
myself.

I carried on the experiment for three years with the following results:

     In 1898, I planted 1000 burs; 917 grew two plants to the bur.
     In 1899, I planted 1000 burs; 921 grew two plants to the bur.
     In 1900, I planted 1000 burs; 913 grew two plants to the bur.
     Total three years, 3000 burs; 2751 grew two plants to the bur.

Of the remaining 249 burs some grew one plant, some none; some had one,
some had two apparently sound seeds. I regret that no further notice was
taken of these seeds. The _only_ object was to determine whether the two
seeds _could_ be made to grow at the same time. An account of the work
was sent to Professor Selby, asking whether further experiment was
necessary; he replied that he thought not.

Perhaps it should be added that I selected only apparently sound burs;
soil was taken from a field near a creek where cockleburs grow
abundantly. It was passed through a ¼ inch-mesh wire sieve, and
carefully searched over with the aid of a glass. This soil was taken to
a distant part of the farm; in it the seeds were planted and nature did
the rest.

I also made observations as follows: I searched among specimens growing
for a mile along a creek, for two plants growing together and not nearer
than five inches to any other plant. Of the 1500 specimens examined each
year for three years, two plants always grew from one bur.

Why have I obtained such opposite results as compared with Professor
Arthur’s? Can it be referred to locality, soil, or some other more
favorable conditions?

The substance of the above was presented, December 27, 1900, to the Ohio
Academy of Science and it provoked a discussion in which Professors
Kellerman, Schaffner, Mosely and others participated. Dr. Kellerman
thought that the results of Arthur’s experiments were perhaps more
nearly in accord with what usually takes place in nature. He pointed out
the mistake of quoting or saying that Arthur has shown “that only one of
the seeds can be caused to germinate the first year.” Turning to the
printed report of the experiments in question (Proc. 16th, An. Meeting
Soc. Prom. Agr. Sci., 1895), I find that, based on many experiments made
previous to 1895, he gives the result in round numbers as follows: “Out
of every hundred ordinarily well formed cockleburs, seventy will produce
one seedling each, and five two seedlings each the first year after
maturity; the remaining twenty-five will for various reasons fail to
grow. Thirty of the hundred will produce seedlings the second year after
maturity, five will produce seedlings the third year after maturity, and
two or three seedlings will be produced in subsequent years.”

Later experiments by Dr. Arthur seemed to show a lower percentage of
cases of the sprouting of both seeds to the bur in one season. In the
summary he states: “The germination of both seeds of a bur of Xanthium
in one season is exceptional.”

In view of the above and in accordance with the suggestions of others I
purpose continuing my experiments relative to this subject.

The following interesting statement is made by Dr. Arthur, in the report
cited, touching the cause of the difference in the action of the two
seeds; he says it “appears to be constitutional; a hereditary character
residing in the protoplasm of the embryo.”

_New London, Ohio._




               PLANT REMAINS FROM THE BAUM VILLAGE SITE.

                              W. C. MILLS.


During the year 1900 the Ohio Archaeological and Historical Society
procured from the ash pits of the Baum Village Site, situated near
Bournville, Ross county, Ohio, a number of grains and seeds, which were
submitted to Prof. J. H. Schaffner for identification. The following is
the list:

Corn, Zea mays L.

Great quantities of the eight rowed variety were found. The cobs were
usually about one-half inch in diameter. Also a variety with more than
eight rows, usually ten rows was found. This variety had a much thicker
cob. The grains and cob were in a good state of preservation, having
been charred. In several instances the charred remains of a woven fabric
were found intermingled with the cobs and grains, showing that the corn
had evidently been wrapped in this cloth. In other instances the grains
and cobs were found in large pieces of broken pottery and were well
preserved. Finding the corn in so many of the pits shows that it largely
supplied the food of the camp.

Quantities of charred papaw seeds, Asimina triloba, (L.) Dunal, and the
wild Hazelnut, Corylus americana Walt. were found in a number of pits
showing that these were largely used for food.

Quite a quantity of the seeds of the wild red plum, Prunus americana
Marsh. was also taken from the pits. These were, in a number of
instances, associated with papaw seeds and the shells of the chestnut,
Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.

Great quantities of the broken shells of the butternut, Juglans cinerea
L. and the black walnut, Juglans nigra L. were discovered. These were
usually found associated together, but in several instances they were
found separated, the butternuts being more abundant than the walnuts.

Three species of hickory nuts were procured but none of these were in
such quantities as the butternut and black walnut. The three species
found were as follows: Hicoria minima (Marsh.) Britt., Hicoria ovata
(Mill.) Britt., Hicoria laciniosa (Mx.) Britt.

Several specimens of beans, Phaseolus (sp) and also a specimen of the
grape, Vitis (sp.) were found in the material, but it was not possible
to tell whether the beans were one of our wild species or cultivated.




                   SPROUTING FLOWER BUDS OF OPUNTIA.

                             DR. V. STERKI.


In June of last year I took some Opuntia plants home, and also some top
joints heavily set with large buds. The former were planted in the
garden, the latter set in an Oleander tub. When, after a month, none of
the flower buds had opened, it was thought that they were too many, as
the joints bearing them were without roots, and most of them were cut
off and left lying on the ground, where a part of them later on became
partly or entirely covered with soil. In September, I was surprised to
find them all green and fresh; most of them had rooted, and a few even
sprouted, sending up shoots from half an inch to over an inch high,
being perfect little joints. At the present writing (Jan. a. c.) all are
alive, and, no doubt, will grow out to plants next summer. They will be
watched closely and further report be given.

It might be added that the Opuntia calyx-tube, which is later the fruit,
has “eyes,” that is buds, of the same character as the ordinary buds of
the plant, with clusters of bristles; and out of these the young shoots
grew, when the bud took root.

Evidently these buds retain more of the nature of the mother plant than
is common in flowers. It is unknown to me whether similar observations
have been made before. But it would be of interest to make experiments
with different plants. Would the receptacles root and sprout if detached
after flowering and fertilization have taken place? Would the buds
sprout when left in situ on the mother plant, after the flowering parts
had been removed, the receptacle only left in place? Will the buds of
other genera of Cacteae, and other similar succulent plants behave in
the same way, under favorable conditions?

So-called viviparous plants are, as is well known, rather common, e. g.
among Gramineae, Cyperaceae, Polygoneae. But there the actual flower
parts develop into leaves, from which they had originally been derived,
and while yet remaining on the parent plant.

_New Philadelphia, Ohio._




              NOTE ON THE INVOLUCRAL LEAVES OF SYNDESMON.

                           F. H. BURGLEHAUS.


Syndesmon thalictroides is described in Britton & Brown’s Flora as
having sessile involucral leaves, which character is contradicted in the
plants growing in the vicinity of Toledo. Careful observation during the
past season fails to reveal a single instance of sessile involucral
leaves, and most of the specimens examined have these leaves borne on
petioles from one-fourth to one-half inch in length. Should like to hear
from others concerning this feature of one of our most beautiful and
dainty spring flowers.

_Toledo, Ohio._




                COMPETITION IN BOTANY FOR OHIO SCHOOLS.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


Whatever may contribute to a more direct and real study of the plant
kingdom on the part of the pupils can well be encouraged by the teacher.
It is an unfortunate fact that in reference to a course in botany the
notion largely prevails that it consists of lesson-work with a text-book
like a course in history or algebra. It is often more dreaded than the
latter because of the supposed necessity of learning a long list of
difficult technical terms. Few teachers would be willing to give up the
use of the text-book entirely and it is not at all necessary that they
should. But every teacher can now choose a modern book of botany from
the fairly long list that is offered by American publishers. These are
not mainly terminology nor written with the chief aim of enabling the
pupil, after having gone through a sufficient number of chapters, to
“analyze” flowers. Many of them unfortunately provide no means of
identifying the native plants as a part of a school course, but teachers
are not left without choice of a good book after such ultra ones are
thrown out of the list.

The text of an elementary book on botany should contain the important
facts and principles of the science, and give a brief but comprehensive
idea of the plant kingdom, in simple and plain language. An intimation
and partial elucidation of means and methods employed to test or to
verify the principles and inferences should be evident in the text. But
this of itself is not sufficient for pedagogical purposes; there should
be besides practical work provided, regular in time, ample in amount,
that may train in the exercise of observation, experimentation and
judgment.

I have for years devoted one-half the time of the botanical courses,
both elementary and advanced, to such real work carried on partly in the
laboratory, partly in the field. Besides courses here referred to others
devoted wholly to laboratory, experimental or observational work are
provided; but it is not my purpose to discuss these now. Neither is it
necessary to give here a detailed outline of the practical work that
should constitute a substantial portion of the elementary work for
beginners. Those who wish to use such a simple yet ample course in the
public schools can consult the “Practical Studies in Elementary Botany”
published by Eldredge & Bro., Philadelphia, Pa.

But I desire to say in this connection that more real work on the native
flora than is attempted even by able and enthusiastic teachers in Ohio
schools would undoubtedly be advisable. I have outlined some competition
work and submitted it to some of the schools looking to more interest in
elementary practical work in this science. It has been urged that the
project might be made more widely known to our Ohio schools with
possible advantage, and therefore I have furnished, though with some
misgivings, the following statement of this scheme.

Either of the following subjects may be selected: Mosses, Lichens, or
Trees; the work to conform to the suggestions and directions given
below. The Report of the work must be completed on or before May 15,
1901, and submitted to the Teacher of Botany, or person (or persons)
designated by him, who—taking into account both the quality and quantity
of the work—will forward, if worthy, the best report accompanied by the
illustrative material, to the undersigned; whereupon the latter will, on
or before May 31, send as a reward to the author of said report a copy
of the OHIO NATURALIST VOL. 1.

Pupils now studying, or those who have formerly studied, botany are
eligible to enter the competition. No award will be made unless at least
two or three pupils undertake the work; it is hoped that every member of
the class will compete.

It is desired that the pupils consult teachers, parents, and others, who
may be able to advise as to the subject, kind and extent of the work,
also as to the best arrangement and wording of the report, and the
labelling and preparation of the accompanying illustrative material.

The report is to contain a detailed account of the work actually done by
the pupil and in no case to contain anything not his own.

The names of those entering the competition must be sent to the
undersigned on or before March 30th. The suggestions, directions and
explanation of the three subjects proposed are as follows:

BRYOLOGICAL.—All the kinds of Mosses in the region should be collected
and put under slight pressure till dry; then a small portion should be
glued directly upon a piece of card-board and a larger amount placed in
a paper pocket and attached to the same piece; the notes and drawings
can also be attached to the same card-board which for each species
should be 8¼ x 11½ inches. Most of the kinds (species) can be found in
fruit; the latter is a capsule (little pod) on a slender stem called the
seta. Specimens without fruit are not very satisfactory.

Tell in each case on what the specimen grows, as the ground, tree trunk,
old log, rock, boulder, etc.; add other notes relating to its situation
(habitat), abundance, appearance, general character (habit), etc.

Draw an enlarged figure at least of the capsule (fruit) of some or all
of the species (kinds) collected. In the early stage there is usually a
cap (called calyptra) on the capsule. When the capsule is ripe it opens
by a lid (called the operculum) for the escape of the spores. Notice the
teeth (called collectively the peristome) surrounding the mouth of the
capsule—evident when the operculum falls off.

A good pocket lens must be used for this work. The drawings must be
clear; after completed with a sharp lead pencil it would be well to
retrace with a fine pen and india (or drawing) ink. Excessive shading of
the figures is objectionable.

If a book is desired, a suitable one for beginners is Grout’s “Mosses
with a Hand-lens,” price $1.10; orders sent to the author or to the
writer of this article will be promptly attended to. But for the
purposes of this competition the botanical names of mosses are not
_required_; it will be of course more interesting if an attempt at the
identification of the species is in all cases made.

LICHENOLOGICAL.—All the kinds of Lichens in the region should be
collected. The little disks, or saucer-like bodies, on the plants are
the fruit (called the apothecium); the apothecia are more distinct and
striking in appearance, as is the whole plant also, when moist;
therefore the best time to collect lichens is after a prolonged rain, or
when the air is moist; when dry they are usually brittle and cannot be
satisfactorily handled.

Do not save specimens that have no fruit, except in case of rare
species. Only enough pressure on the specimens (placed between blotters
or soft papers) should be brought into requisition as is necessary to
keep them from curving or crumpling while drying. Then glue a specimen
to a card-board, 8¼ × 11½ inches, and also attach a paper pocket
containing ample material, and the drawings (if any are attempted), also
the notes, to the same piece of card-board. Use a separate card-board
for each kind (species).

Tell the substratum on which the specimen was found—as boulders,
limestone, sandstone, log or stump, fence-rail, tree or plant, soil,
etc. Give additional notes as to appearance, size, abundance, habitat,
habit, etc. Those growing on rocks can not generally be removed—a thin
piece of rock must be chipped off to secure them.

A detailed description should be written of each kind (species);
drawings perhaps might be undertaken; the different species should be
compared and contrasted. Use a good pocket lens. There is no text-book
on Lichens that is usable by beginners.

DENDROLOGICAL.—The Trees may be studied from one of several points of
view. If a camera be used, selected trees should be studied and
illustrated; the bark compared in case of different species, likewise in
case of one and the same species when the individuals are of different
ages and sizes or grow in different situations or exposures; also modes
of branching compared and shapes contrasted. Very full notes should be
taken, and when written up in the report reference should be made
constantly to the numbered illustrations. Few or many kinds of trees, as
preferred, may be taken if this phase of the subject is selected.

Instead of the above one may study and identify all the kinds (species)
of trees in the region. Full descriptions should be written out, and
similarities and contrasts of different species noted. Give uses of the
kinds of woods only when such use is made in the region or the near town
or city. Collect twigs and fasten them to card-boards (8¼ × 11½ inches).
Attach a specimen of the fruit also when it can be found under the tree.
A pamphlet (price 10 cents) with a Key to the Ohio Forest Trees by means
of which the names can be determined, may be obtained from the writer.

A third method of carrying out the work on trees would be to give an
account of the forest area in the region—either taking a square or
rectangular tract of a mile or more in extent; or selecting if possible
a natural area, as a river or creek valley, or other obviously bounded
tract of ample dimensions. Draw a map of the selected region and locate
thereon the forests and groups of trees. Describe them, indicating the
prominent kinds of trees, the less abundant species, and the very rare
ones. Tell approximately the size of the largest, the commonest size,
etc. Note uses made of some of the kinds in the region or at a near
manufactory. Record other observations.




                       MINOR PLANT NOTES, NO. 2.

                            W. A. KELLERMAN.


TARAXACUM ERYTHROSPERMUM.—The Red-seeded Dandelion, now known to be
common in our State, is a late bloomer. An abundance of flowers may be
seen way after the severe frosts of autumn set in. Mr. Fred. J. Tyler
collected specimens in bloom at Perry, Lake County, December 17. He
reports “great fields” of it at that place, whereas the common Dandelion
(Taraxacum taraxacum) was conspicuous by its absence. Prof. Beardslee of
Cleveland, reports the Red-seeded form as the one of common occurrence
in Cuyahoga County. I have noted the Red-seeded form in bloom near the
city of Columbus December 23, though the month has been a cold one, the
thermometer registering once 10° F. The Common Dandelion (Taraxacum
taraxacum) does not seem to bloom so late in the season—at least it is
in bloom much less abundantly here. Contributions of phenological
observations on interesting plants of our flora by readers of THE
NATURALIST are in this incidental way earnestly solicited.

GROVE OF LARGE BEECHES.—There are now remaining in Ohio very few large
groves of beeches. Of groves of very large beeches the same may be said.
At Arion, in Scioto County, in the narrow valley of Brush Creek, are a
large number of magnificent specimens of this very attractive American
tree. The trunks are straight as is always the case for this species,
smooth, and many of them are ten to twelve feet in circumference. One
specimen measured twelve feet four inches, three feet from the ground.
The grove is now used for picnic and camping purposes, and it is
sincerely hoped that these splendid trees may be sacredly preserved for
an indefinite time.

HABITAT OF RHAMNUS CAROLINIANA.—The manuals give the habitat of this
species “in swamps and on low grounds” (Britton), “swamps and river
banks” (Gray), “river banks” (Wood), and “fertile soil” (Chapman). It
has been previously reported that this species was found in Ohio last
November. Several specimens were found near the Ohio river in Adams
county at the mouth of Brush creek, and a few were seen in Brown county.
In a little ravine on Cedar creek, a tributary of Brush creek, in Adams
county, fourteen miles north of the Ohio river, an enormous number of
plants were growing. Some were nine to eleven inches in circumference at
the base and fourteen feet high. None occurred in “swamps,” though many
were in “low grounds” where the soil seemed to be fairly fertile. The
majority were on rocky hillsides or quite on the top of very high
ground. The annexed cut shows a specimen near the top of a rocky bluff
or hill perhaps one hundred and fifty feet above the valley at Cedar
Mills, Ohio. This southern Buckthorn still retained its shining leaves
though my visit was late in November when nearly all the other trees
except the oaks were bare. This, with the great quantities of black
fruits, presented a charming spectacle. The plant is also reported in
Stanley Coulter’s catalogue of Indiana plants, discovered in the
southern counties by Mr. W. T. Blatchley, “growing on rocky hillsides.”

[Illustration: Rhamnus Caroliniana on a rocky hill.]

[Illustration: Twin Beech and Red Oak.]

TWIN TREES; TWO SPECIES.—Sometimes two trees attempt to occupy the same
space at the same time. The cut above shows a red oak and a beech in
close juxtaposition, neither having been able to crowd the other out,
and the two are united for a short distance from the ground. This would
hardly be called a natural graft perhaps, though the two are intimately
united. The trees are vigorous typical specimens of the two species,
growing near Brush creek, at Arion, in Scioto county, Ohio. Several
other examples in the same region were noticed. Sometimes the two trees
are the same species, but usually of different species, the union of
tissue in all cases equally evident.




                    MEETING OF THE BIOLOGICAL CLUB.


A meeting of the Biological Club was held in Zoological Lecture-room
January 7, 1901. Professor Osborn presided; twenty-three members
present.

Mr. Griggs, secretary of the board of editors gave a financial report
and recommended that the name of the publication be changed to THE OHIO
NATURALIST. By the unanimous vote of the members present, the
recommendation was adopted.

Professor Hambleton read a paper on his Explorations in southern Chile
and Patagonia. He said:

The expedition was sent out by the Chilean government and had for its
object the exploration of the coast from about 40° south latitude to 48°
in search of a river that might come from beyond the mountains. This was
done and a river called by the party _Baker River_ was discovered
emptying into Baker channel at about 47° 20′ south latitude. This river
was followed in its course to the water-shed and was found to be the
outlet of Lake Cochrane, though its principal source was not discovered.

A study of the flora of the region traversed by the party brought to
light the following facts: That the Peninsula of Taitao marks the
division line between the rich and varied flora of the Llanquihue region
and the monotonous flora of the Magellan Strait region.

The difference between these two floras is really remarkable. In the
Llanquihue region no one species nor even genus can be said to
predominate. Character is given to the vegetation by the _Chusquea
quila_ a sort of climbing bamboo. _Fuchsia macrostemma_ and a large
variety of stately forest trees, all struggling together for the mastery
and making a forest as impenetrable as the Selvas of the Amazon.

The Magellanic region is characterized by the predominance of several
species of _Nothofagus_. Immense forests may be found composed
exclusively of a single species, for example, the _N. pumila_, and in
all this region, extending from the Peninsula of Taitoa to Cape Horn, a
distance 10° of latitude, no other kind of tree acquires any
considerable size.

Professor Mills gave a report of the Baltimore meeting of
Anthropologists, and Professor Osborn gave a short account of a visit
with Dr. P. R. Uhler, and called attention to some of the Zoological
papers read before the meeting of the Society of Naturalists.

J. K. Knox, Miss Mary Dresbach, Miss Mary C. Crawford, E. D. Coberly, C.
C. Poindexter, A. F. Conradi and Miss Clara Tangeman were elected to
membership.

The Society then adjourned.

                                                JAS. S. HINE, Secretary.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         Ohio State University

              Six distinct and independent Colleges, each
                with a Dean and Faculty of its own.
                  THIRTY SEVEN DEPARTMENTS.
                      THIRTY DISTINCT COURSES.

              AGRICULTURE, ARTS, LAW,
                ENGINEERING, PHARMACY,
                  VETERINARY MEDICINE.

Superior facilities for education in Applied Science. Short or special
courses for mature students not candidates for degrees.

 One hundred and twenty-one instructors. Over thirteen hundred students.

                      FINEST GYMNASIUM IN THE WEST.

_For further information address the President_,

                         DR. W. O. THOMPSON, STATE UNIVERSITY, COLUMBUS.


           Ohio Forest Trees Identified by Leaves and Fruit.

           By W. A. KELLERMAN, PH. D., Ohio State University.

A neat pamphlet for every one who wishes to learn our native forest
trees. Keys simple. Description plain. Can learn the names of the trees
easily.

 Price reduced from 25 cents to                                10 cents.


           Also, =The Fourth State Catalogue of Ohio Plants=.

 Bound copies at cost of binding, namely                       20 cents.

  Gives list of scientific and common names; distribution by counties.

Teachers and others will also be interested in Prof. Kellerman’s
Phyto-theca or Herbarium Portfolio, _Practical Studies_ in Elementary
Botany, _Elementary Botany_ with Spring Flora, all published by Eldredge
& Bro., Philadelphia, to whom apply.

For information or copies of _Forest Trees_ and _Catalogue_ or names of
plant specimens of your region _address_

                                         W. A. KELLERMAN, COLUMBUS, OHIO


                       American Entomological Co.

                  1040 DE KALB AVENUE, BROOKLYN, N. Y.

  Lepidoptera Price List No. 2.—_Price 5 cents_    Refunded to Buyers.

                       ISSUED NOVEMBER 15th 1900.

         Dealers of all kinds of       _ENTOMOLOGICAL SUPPLIES_

   Manufacturers of the Original and Celebrated SCHMITT INSECT BOXES.

                  _Builders of INSECT CABINETS, ETC._


              The Twentieth Century Text Books of Biology.

 PLANT RELATIONS, 12mo, cloth                                      $1.10
 PLANT STRUCTURES, 12mo, cloth                                      1.20
 PLANT STUDIES, 12mo, cloth                                         1.20
 PLANTS, 12mo, cloth                                                1.80
 ANALYTICAL KEY TO PLANTS, 12mo, flexible cloth                      .75

    All by JOHN MERLE COULTER. A. M., Ph. D., Head of Dept. of Botany,
                          University of Chicago.

 _They are already the preferred texts, and the reasons will be apparent
                             on examination._


                  ANIMAL LIFE: A First Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., President of the
    Leland Stanford Junior University, and VERNON L. KELLOGG, M. S.,
    Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
    _Now ready._

  _Not a book for learning the classification, anatomy, and nomenclature
  of animals, but to show how animals reached their present development,
  the effects of environment, their place in Nature, their relations to
  one another and to the human race. Designed for one-half year’s work
  in high schools. Send for sample pages._

                ANIMAL FORMS: A Second Book of Zoology.

  By DAVID S. JORDAN, M. S., M. D., Ph. D., LL. D., and HAROLD HEATH,
    Ph. D., Professor in Leland Stanford Junior University. _Ready in
    February, 1901._

 =D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, Publishers=, _New York_, _Chicago_, _London_.


                        RECENT SCIENTIFIC WORKS

In =Astronomy=, Dr. Simon Newcomb’s new book, published October, 1900;
in =Physics=, the Johns Hopkins text of Professors Rowland and Ames;
also in Physics for second and third year high school work, the text of
Dr. Hoadley, of Swarthmore; in =Physiology=, the text by Drs. Macy and
Norris, based on the Nervous System; also the =High School Physiology=
indorsed by the W. C. T. U., written by Dr. Hewes, of Harvard
University; in =Geology=, the =Revised= “=Compend=” of Dr. Le Conte, and
the two standard works of Dana,—The =Manual for University Work=, and
the =New Text Book=, revision and rewriting of Dr. Rice, for fourth year
high school work; in =Chemistry=, the approved =Storer and Lindsay=,
recommended for secondary schools by the leading colleges; in =Zoology=,
the =Laboratory Manual= of Dr. Needham, of Cornell; and the Series
“=Scientific Memoirs=” edited by Dr. Ames, of Johns Hopkins. Nine
volumes ready.

The publishers cordially invite correspondence.

                   AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY, CINCINNATI

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.
